---
layout: post2
title: Project file
subtitle: inifile
update: 2018-01-02
cover: /img/jupedsim_small.png
permalink: 2016-11-01-inifile.html
nav:
- page: Header
  permalink: 2016-11-01-inifile.html#header
- page: Traffic constraints
  permalink: 2016-11-01-inifile.html#traffic-constraints
- page: Goals
  permalink: 2016-11-01-inifile.html#goals
- page: Agents
  permalink: 2016-11-01-inifile.html#agents
- page: Operational models
  permalink: 2016-11-01-inifile.html#operational-models
- page: Router
  permalink: 2016-11-01-inifile.html#router
- page: Back to top
  permalink: 2016-11-01-inifile.html#top
---


With  the `inifile` the simulation with `jpscore` can be controlled.

The typical structure of an `inifile` is as follows:

```xml
<jupedsim>
  <header>
       <!-- seed , geometry, output format -->
  </header>

  <traffic_constraints>
      <!-- traffic information: e.g closed doors or smoked rooms -->
  </traffic_constraints>

  <goals>
  <!-- goals (closed polygons) outside the geometry-->
  </goals>

  <agents>
      <agents_distribution>
          <!--persons information and distribution -->
      </agents_distribution>
  </agents>

  <operational_models>
      <model id="n" description="name">
          <!-- parameters of model (<n>, "name")  -->
      </model>
      <!-- other models can be defined -->
  </operational_models>

  <route_choice_models>
      <router router_id="n" description="name">
          <!-- parameters of router (<n>, "name")  -->
      </router>
      <!-- other routers can be defined -->
  </route_choice_models>

</JuPedSim>
```

### Header

The header comprises the following elements:

-   `<seed>s</seed>`

    Set the  `seed` value of the random number generator to `s`. If missing the
    current time (`time(NULL)`), is used i.e. random initial conditions.

-   `<max_sim_time>t</max_sim_time>`
    the maximal simulation time in seconds.

-   `<num_threads>n</num_threads>` the number of used cores.

-   `<show_statistics>true</show_statistics>` Show different aggregate statistics e.g. the usage of the doors. (default: false)

-   `<logfile>log.txt</logfile>` save relevant information about the simulation to a log file.
  Useful to keep track of warnings or errors that may rise during a simulation.

- `<progressbar/>`: show a progress bar of the simulation.

-  The trajectory file

```bash
 <trajectories format="xml-plain" fps="8" color_mode="velocity">
    <file location="trajectories.xml" />   </trajectories>
```

The options for the format are

-   `xml-plain`: the default xml format. It can lead to large files. See section [xml-plain](2016-11-03-trajectory#xml).

-   `plain`: simple text format. See section [plain](2016-11-03-trajectory#txt).

- The value `fps` defines the frame rate per second for the trajectories.

    - `color_mode`: coloring agents in the trajectories. Options are:
       - `velocity` (default): color is proportional to speed (slow --> red).
       - `spotlight`
       - `group`: color by group
       - `knowledge`
       - `router`
       - `final_goal`
       - `intermediate_goal`

    - `file location` defines the location of the trajectories.
       All paths are relative to the location of the project file.

-   `<geometry>geometry.xml</geometry>`
    The name and location of the geometry file. All file locations are relative
    to the actual location of the project file. See [specification](2016-11-02-geometry.html) of the geometry format.

### Traffic constraints

This section defines constraints related to the traffic.
At the moment the state of the doors can be changed (`open` or `close`)


```xml
 <traffic_constraints>
    <!-- doors states are: close or open -->
    <doors>
        <door trans_id="4" caption="Main-gate" state="open" />
        <door trans_id="6" caption="Rear-gate" state="close" />
        <door trans_id="0" caption="NaN" state="open" dn="10" outflow="2" max_agents="200"/>
        <file>traffic.xml</file>
    </doors>
 </traffic_constraints>
```

- `trans_id`: unique id of that specific door as defined in the geometry file. See [geometry](2016-11-02-geometry.html).

- `caption`: optional parameter defining the caption of the door.

- `state` defines the state of the door. Options are `close` or `open`.
Door's properties:
- `dn`: number of agents to pass the door before triggering the process of flow regulation.
- `outflow`: Max flow through door. Door's state will be changed adequately.
- `max_agents`: Max agents that can pass door. Door will be closed permanently
- `file` (optional) file containing further constraints. See [traffic.xml](2019-04-12-traffic.html)

### Goals

Additional goals might be defined **outside** the geometry.
They should _NOT_ overlap with any walls or be inside rooms.
It is recommended to position them near the exits.

Goals are defined with close polygons, with  *the last vertex is equal to the first one*.

```xml
 <routing>
    <goals>
        <goal id="0" final="false" caption="goal 1">
            <polygon>
                <vertex px="-5.0" py="-5.0" />
                <vertex px="-5.0" py="-2.0" />
                <vertex px="-3.0" py="-2.0" />
                <vertex px="-3.0" py="-5.0" />
                <vertex px="-5.0" py="-5.0" />
                </polygon>
        </goal>
        <file>goals.xml</file>
    </goals>
 </routing>
```

- `file` file containing further goals. See [goals.xml](2019-04-12-goals.html)

### Waiting Area

Addional goals which also can be defined **inside** the geometry.
When the waiting area is reached, pedestrians may wait till they move to one of the specified next goal (decided individually for each ped).
Waiting either depends on time or till a specific door opens.
They should _NOT_ overlap with any walls or be inside rooms.

Waiting areas are defined with close polygons, with  *the last vertex is equal to the first one*.

```xml
 <routing>
    <goals>
			<waiting_area caption="wa1" id="1" waiting_time="20" min_peds="5" max_peds="10" is_open="true" room_id="0"  subroom_id="1" global_timer="false" transition_id="1">
				<polygon>
					<vertex px="11" py="1" />
					<vertex px="14" py="1" />
					<vertex px="14" py="4" />
					<vertex px="11" py="4" />
					<vertex px="11" py="1" />
				</polygon>
				<next_wa id="2" p="0.75"/>
				<next_wa id="3" p="0.25"/>
			</waiting_area>
        <file>goals.xml</file>
    </goals>
 </routing>
```

- `file`: file containing further goals/waiting areas. See [goals.xml](2019-04-12-goals.html)
- `waiting_time`: the time pedestrians wait inside the waiting area
- `min_peds`: the number of pedestrians needed in the waiting area to start the timer (if `global_timer` = false)
- `max_peds`: the max number of pedestrians allowed inside the waiting area. **Important:** to avoid undefined behaviour `max_peds` should not exceed the number of pedestrians heading for an other waiting area. Hence `max_peds(WA1)` <= `max_peds(WA2)`.
- `is_open`: defines whether the waiting area is open for pedestrians
- `room_id`: ID of room containg waiting area
- `subroom_id`: ID of subroom containing waiting area
- `global_timer`: If `true` timer starts with start of the simulation, else timer starts when `min_peds` pedestrians are inside waiting area
- `transition_id`: waits till the specific door opens. **Important:**`waiting_time` is neglected in this case!

- `next_wa`: Next waiting area or goal where pedestrians are heading for
  - `id`: ID of next waiting area/goal
  - `p`: probability of pedestrians being led to the specific next waiting area. During simulation if `max_ped` of the particular waiting is reached it will not be considered.

### Agents

There are two ways to distribute agents for  a simulation:

- [random distribution](#agents_distribution) in a specific area *before* the simulation starts.
- distribution by means of [sources](#sources) *during* the simulation.

#### Agents_distribution
An example how to define agent's characteristics with different number of
attributes is as follows

```xml
 <agents>
   <agents_distribution>
     <group group_id="1" room_id="0" number="10" />

     <group group_id="2" room_id="0" subroom_id="0" number="10"
           goal_id="" router_id="1" />

   </agents_distribution>
 </agents>
```

- `group_id`: mandatory parameter defining the unique id of that group.

- `number`: mandatory parameter defining the number of agents to distribute.

- `room_id`: mandatory parameter defining the room where the agents should be
randomly distributed.

- `subroom_id`: defines the id of the subroom where the agents should be distributed.
  If omitted then the agents are homogeneously distributed in the room.

- `goal_id`: should be one of the `id`s defined in the section  [goals](#goals).
   If omitted or is `-1` then the shortest exit to the outside is chosen by the agent.

- `router_id`: defines the route choice model to be used. See [documentation](2016-11-03-routing.html) of available routers.

- `age`: not yet used by the [operational](2016-11-01-operativ.html) models.

- `gender`: not yet used.

- `height`: not yet used.

- `patience`:  this parameter influences the route choice behavior when using the quickest path router.
  It basically defines how long a pedestrian stays in jams before attempting a rerouting.

- `pre_movement_mean` and `pre_movement_sigma`: premovement time is Gauss-distributed $$\mathcal{N}(\mu, \sigma^2)$$.

- Risk tolerance can be Gauss-distributed, or beta-distributed.
  If not specified then it is defined as $$\mathcal{N}(1, 0)$$:

  - `risk_tolerance_mean` and `risk_tolerance_sigma`: $$\mathcal{N}(\mu, \sigma^2)$$.

  - `risk_tolerance_alpha` and `risk_tolerance_beta`: $$Beta(\alpha, \beta)$$.

- `x_min`, `x_max`, `y_min` and `y_max`: define a bounding box where agents should be distributed.

- `startX`, `startY`: define the initial coordinate of the agents. This might be useful for testing/debugging.
Note that these two options are only considered if `number=1`.

- `agent_parameter_id`: choose a set of parameters for the [operational models](2016-11-01-operativ.html).

#### Sources
Besides distributing agents randomly before the simulation starts, it is
possible to define sources in order to "inject"
new agents in the system during the simulation.

```xml
 <agents_sources>
   <source id="1" frequency="2" agents_max="10" group_id="1" caption="caption" greedy="true"/>
   <source id="2" time="10" agent_id="50" group_id="1" caption="caption" greedy="true"/>
   <source id="10" caption="new-source" time_min="5" time_max="30" frequency="5" N_create="10" agents_max="300"
   group_id="0"  x_min="0" x_max="3" y_min="0" y_max="3" percent="0.5" rate="2"  greedy="true"/>
   <file>sources.xml</file>
 </agents_sources>
```

- `id`: id of the source
- `frequency`: time of generation of pedestrians (default = 1).
- `N_create`: How many agents to create at once (default = 1).
- `percent`: percent of `N_create` to generate (default = 1)
- `rate`: rate of generation of agents
- `time_min`, `time_max`: Time lifespan of the source
- `agents_max`: maximal number of agents produced by that source.
- `group_id`: group id of the agents. This `id` **should match** a predefined group in the section [Agents_distribution](#agents_distribution).
- `caption`: caption
- `greedy` (default `false`): returns a Voronoi vertex randomly with respect to weights proportional to squared distances.
   For vertexes $$v_i$$ and distances $$d_i$$ to their surrounding seeds
   calculate the probabilities $$p_i$$ as

   $$p_i= \frac{d_i^2}{\sum_j^n d_j^2}.$$

   If this attribute is set to `true`, the greedy approach is used.
   That means new agents will be placed on the vertex with the biggest distance to the surrounding seeds.

- `time`: time of appearance of agent with id `agent_id`. Here `agents_max=1`.
- `startX`, `startY`: Distribute one pedestrians at a fix position.
- `x_min`, `x_max`, `y_min`, `y_max`: Bounding box for generation od agents
- `file`: a file containing further sources. See [sources.xml](2019-04-12-sources.html)

Example of usage:

- Busses are coming every 10 min (600 seconds).
- Every bus transports 100 pedestrians
- When the bus stops, every 2 seconds 10 pedestrians leave the bus
- 3 Buses at max.

```xml
 <source id="10" frequency="600" N_create="100" agents_max="300"
   percent="0.1" rate="2"  greedy="true"/>
```


## Operational models
One of the available [operational models](2016-11-01-operativ.html) should be defined.

## Router
One of the available [routers](2016-11-03-routing.html) should be defined.
